[MUSIC PLAYING]
MATT GAUNT: Hello and
welcome to this first ever
Totally Tooling Minitips
with me, Matt Gaunt,
and Addy Osmani.
ADDY OSMANI: Hello.
MATT GAUNT: And in
this show, we're
going to be looking at critical
rendering path, specifically
CSS.
ADDY OSMANI: Yes.
So Critical Path CSS
and optimizing it
is all about making sure that
the stuff that you're shipping
down to users makes sense
for the current view,
and that you're minimizing the
number of blocking resources
that might slow that stuff down.
MATT GAUNT: So the way
that you'd normally
do this for your website to
find out how you're doing
is if you go into DevTools,
open up your network panel,
select maybe like a network
like a 3G or something.
Make sure you've got
this camcorder clicked,
click on Record, and
then refresh the page.
What this does is it starts
taking a set of screenshots
of your website over time.
So once it's all done you get
a whole slew of these things.
And when you double-click
on one of the images,
you get to see what the first
render of your page looks like.
So here after 283
milliseconds, I actually
have something to
the screen, and it's
got the important content there.
Click through some
of the frames.
So we've got a bar here.
That's basically saying
that my asynchronous CSS
has been loaded.
The additional stuff.
We've got fonts loaded in now.
And then we get the images
and it slowly comes in.
And one of the things I wanted
to do with this was basically
find a way of,
well, what happens
if I removed all of the
additional asynchronous CSS?
The stuff that I didn't
actually care about.
And Paulos turned in some
code that I originally
wrote into a really nice
[? bookmark loop. ?]
And when you run it, it'll
find any remote stylesheets
and just disable them so they
no longer apply to the page.
So here, this is
what my web page
looks like without that CSS.
So if they only got the
HTML with the inline styles,
this is what it looks like.
Just the important bits.
ADDY OSMANI: Baller.
If you happen to have
a build process using
npm scripts through Gulp or
Grunt or whatever have you,
I wrote a module
called Critical that
uses some other
stuff like Penthouse.
And the idea is that basically
you just throw the pages
that you need to
generate Critical Path
CSS at this thing.
It will generate it
for you inline the CSS.
And it takes care of a lot of
the different repetitive steps
you usually have to do
to get this stuff set up.
So check out Critical.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah.
And it's also worth mentioning
if you wanted to learn more
about this kind of
stuff, Ilya Grigorik
has written a super awesome
set of documentation
all about the Critical
Rendering Path.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah.
Ilya also has a Udacity
course that he's
done about Critical Rendering
that's pretty awesome.
It's worth checking out.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, which you
can find under the shows on Web
Fundamentals.
But we'll link to
that in the video.
ADDY OSMANI: Sweet.
MATT GAUNT: Thank you.
ADDY OSMANI: Bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]